21.1 mz dashboards eud (#135)
DevExpress/dotnet-eud: dashboard-for-web/articles/web-dashboard-designer-mode/ui-elements/dialogs-and-wizards/query-builder.md

---
title: Query Builder
author: Margarita Zakhodyaeva
legacyId: 117967
---
# Query Builder

> In the **Query Builder** dialog, you can add data tables and views to the data source, and select which columns to include. The **Query Builder** automatically joins the related tables, so all you need to do is drag-and-drop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Query Builder** dialog, you can add data tables and views to the data source, and select which columns to include. The **Query Builder** automatically joins the related tables, so all you need to do is drag and drop.
```

![wdd-query-builder](../../../../images/img124934.png)

> This topic consists of the following sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic consists of the following sections:
```

---
title: Query Builder
author: Margarita Zakhodyaeva
legacyId: 117967
---
# Query Builder
In the **Query Builder** dialog, you can add data tables and views to the data source, and select which columns to include. The **Query Builder** automatically joins the related tables, so all you need to do is drag and drop.

![wdd-query-builder](../../../../images/img124934.png)

This topic consists of the following sections:
- [Add Tables](#add-tables)
- [Join Tables](#join-tables)
- [Edit Column Settings](#edit-column-settings)
- [Filter Data](#filter-data)
- [Preview Data](#preview-data)

## Add Tables

> To add the required tables/views to a data source, drag-and-drop them from the **Tables** pane onto the **Diagram** pane.

Reviewer: Thanks for the clarification. Since this is the first sentence in the "Add Tables" section, I'd like to switch the sentence order:

```suggestion
Drag the required tables/views from the **Tables** pane onto the **Diagram** pane to add them to a data source.
```

## Add Tables

> To add the required tables/views to a data source, drag-and-drop it from the **Tables** pane onto the **Diagram** pane.

Reviewer: What is "it"?

Author: ```suggestion
To add the required tables/views to a data source, drag-and-drop them from the **Tables** pane onto the **Diagram** pane.
```

![wdd-query-builder-add-table](../../../../images/img125656.png)

Then, select the required columns.

![wdd-query-builder-select-column](../../../../images/img125657.png)

> To delete the unnecessary table, select it and click the **Delete** button (the ![wdd-query-builder-delete-icon](../../../../images/img125661.png) icon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete an unnecessary table, select it and click the **Delete** button (the ![wdd-query-builder-delete-icon](../../../../images/img125661.png) icon).
```

You can cancel or repeat the action using the **Undo**/**Redo** buttons (the ![wdd-query-builder-undo](../../../../images/img126299.png) and ![wdd-query-builder-redo](../../../../images/img126300.png) icons).

## Join Tables
When you drop a table that has a relationship at the database level with any of the recently added tables, the **Query Builder** joins these tables automatically.

![wdd-query-builder-join-tables](../../../../images/img125658.png)

> You can create a relationship between two tables manually by dragging a column in one table to a related column in a different table. A relationship line will be drawn between the two tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a relationship between two tables manually. To do this, drag a column in one table to a related column in a different table. A relationship line will be drawn between the two tables.
```

![wdd-query-builder-join-tables-manually](../../../../images/img125659.png)

> The Query Builder allows you to change the join type (if necessary). For this, select the relationship line and use the **Join type** combo box in the Properties pane. An **Inner join** and **Left outer join** are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Query Builder allows you to change the join type (if necessary). For this, select the relationship line and use the **Join type** combo box in the Properties pane. **Inner join** and **Left outer join** are supported.
```

![wdd-query-builder-ralstionship-properties](../../../../images/img125660.png)

> To delete the unnecessary relationship, select the relationship line and click the **Delete** button (the ![wdd-query-builder-delete-icon](../../../../images/img125661.png) icon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete an unnecessary relationship, select the relationship line and click the **Delete** button (the ![wdd-query-builder-delete-icon](../../../../images/img125661.png) icon).
```

## Edit Column Settings
To edit a column setting, select the required column in a table. Then, use the **Properties** pane to specify the column setting.

> The following settings are available for each column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following settings are available for each column:
```

> ## Filter Data

Reviewer: Line 58: The **Output** field allows you to choose whether to include the selected column to the query.

Can you change "to the query" to "in the query"?

> The Query Builder allows you to filter a query. To do this, deselect tables and click the ellipsis button in the appeared **Filter** field in the **Properties** pane. This invokes the **Filter Editor** dialog, which provides a visual interface for constructing a filter string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Query Builder allows you to filter a query. To do this, deselect tables and click the ellipsis button in the invoked **Filter** field in the **Properties** pane. This invokes the **Filter Editor** dialog, which enables you to construct a filter string.
```

![wdd-filter-editor-filter-query](../../../../images/img124905.png)

> To learn more, see [Filter Queries](../../provide-data/working-with-sql-data-sources/filter-queries.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following topic to learn more: [Filter Queries](../../provide-data/working-with-sql-data-sources/filter-queries.md).
```

> 

Reviewer: Summary for this MR:
Overall, it is well-written. Here are a few points to focus on in future documents:
- Please review article use (an EF data source, a Federated data source, the number of non-null objects). Also, when talking about a "mode" (for example, _advanced_ mode), note that the article is not necessary.
- Also, try to decrease the number of gerunds used.

##GrammarReview
